# Daisy
## What is Daisy?
Daisy stands for **D**ata **A**ggregation & **I**ntellectualizing **Sy**stem. 
It is a simple (low code/no code) data lake-house (wanna be) with (data) 
integration & machine learning feature which built around well known framework
such as Apache Spark, Delta Lake & Spring Boot.

Updates history of Daisy can be accessed from [here](updates_history.md).

## What Daisy offers?
* #### Data as a service
  * Allow anyone who has minimal or even no PySpark/Spark experience to,
    * Built the desired dataset by triggering the aggregation & cleansing of multiple datasets
    * Store the built dataset to Delta Lake/Hive
    * Write the built dataset to desired data sink
  * RESTful APIs to trigger various built-in and/or user defined operations
* #### Data lakehouse
  * With the bundle of Delta Lake, Daisy can also act as a data lakehouse
* #### Data pipeline & streaming data pipeline
  * (Streaming) data pipeline(s) by leveraging Apache Spark
* #### Machine Learning as a service
  * Built spark-mllib model and predict with little amount of code by anyone who
    has experience on Apache Spark.
  * Inference with models generated by other popular data science frameworks. (TODO)
  * RESTful APIs to invoke model training & getting predictions on the fly.

## What is the design goal of Daisy?
* #### Low code or even no code
  * Data engineers with Apache Spark experience just need to fill in the blanks.
* #### Mainstream frameworks & libraries
  * Can easily be tamed by anyone who has worked with Apache Spark & Spring Boot. 
* #### Minimalistic design
  * Keeping it simple & stupid and does not require a rocket scientist to work 
    with Daisy.

## Daisy's basic
Within the Daisy's ecosystem, every action is regarded as an operation. Each 
operation will apply/perform action/change to the data in flight. The base 
contract of an operation is defined in interface, io.openenterprise.daisy.Operation.
All operations must implement this interface. As of Feb 5th, 2024, Daisy provided
a few built-in operations,

* io.openenterprise.daisy.CompositeOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.MvelDrivenOperationImpl
* io.openenterprise.daisy.spark.ml.clustering.KMeansPredictOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.spark.ml.clustering.KMeansTrainOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.spark.sql.SimpleJoinDatasetOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.spark.sql.SimpleLoadDatasetOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.spark.sql.SimpleSaveDatasetOperation

One can use io.openenterprise.daisy.CompositeOperation to form a flow of operations
against the desired data.

As one may have observed from the above list of operations, Daisy integrates MVEL 
With io.openenterprise.daisy.MvelDrivenOperationImpl one can evaluate MVEL 
expressions to perform actions against desired data. This gives flexibility to 
users who is more tech-savvy. In fact, a few Daisy built-in operations extends
io.openenterprise.daisy.MvelDrivenOperationImpl.

One can refer the following example for usage of various Daisy operations by 
checking out the following example,

* io.openenterprise.daisy.example.spark.RecentPurchaseExampleCompositeOperation
* io.openenterprise.daisy.example.spark.RecentPurchaseExampleMvelDrivenOperation

